1-what is DevOps 

>>DevOps is a methodology in the software development and IT industry.
so many teams involve together like cloud team , montoring team, security team and automation task and testing and so many involve
and work together this called devops

2-what is RCA

>>root cause analaysis (providing the analysis for an error this RCA)

3-why file is getting deleted automatically why

>>cronjobs running every second
>>your set any lambda script then when ever file created then automatically delete
>>set any script to deletete file automatically  
>>expiry of old file to wrie a script to delete

4-the core principal of devops

1-collaboration
2-Automation
3-CI/CD
4-Feedback Montoring
5-Continous learing and improvement

5-what is benfites of devops

1-faster delivery and time to market
2-improved quality and reliabilty
3-enhanced collabiration
4-cost saving
5-increase customer satisfaction

6-how to promote your application dev to test to production

>>we will follow this stragey build once run in any environment. 
>>we build our application in development environment we push to the artifactory nexus or jfrog artifactory. we will have configuration files differnet
environment when we deploy the applications dev environment we will apply the dev configuration file when we deploying the applications in testing environment
we will apply the test configuration files same as like production also

7-Why has DevOps become famous?
>>As we know before DevOps there are two other software development models:
Waterfall model
Agile model
In the waterfall model, we have limitations of one-way working and lack of communication with customers. This was overcome in Agile by including
the communication between the customer and the company by taking feedback. But in this model, another issue is faced regarding communication between 
the Development team and operations team due to which there is a delay in the speed of production. This is where DevOps is introduced. It bridges the 
gap between the development team and the operation team by including the automation feature. Due to this, the speed of production is increased. 
By including automation, testing is integrated into the development stage. Which resulted in finding the bugs at the very initial stage which increased 
the speed and efficiency.

8-How DevOps is helpful to developers?

>>DevOps is very helpful for developers to fix the bugs and quickly implement the new features. It also helps in more transparent communication 
between the team members.

9-Explain some popular devops tools

1-jenkins
2-Ansible
3-Grafana
4-Docker
5-Git
6-Kubernetes

10-What are the prerequisites for the DevOps implementation?

Proper communication between the team members.
At least one version control software.
Automated testing.
Automated deployment.

11- What are the different phases in DevOps?

Plan - Initially, there should be a plan for the type of application that needs to be developed. Getting a rough picture of the development process is always a good idea.
Code - The application is coded as per the end-user requirements. 
Build - Build the application by integrating various codes formed in the previous steps.
Test - This is the most crucial step of the application development. Test the application and rebuild, if necessary.
Integrate - Multiple codes from different programmers are integrated into one.
Deploy - Code is deployed into a cloud environment for further usage. It is ensured that any new changes do not affect the functioning of a high traffic website.
Operate - Operations are performed on the code if required.
Monitor - Application performance is monitored. Changes are made to meet the end-user requirements.

12-What are the key components of DevOps?

Continuous integration
Continuous testing
Continuous delivery
Continuous montiring

13-How is DevOps different from agile methodology?

>>DevOps is a culture that allows the development and the operations team to work together. This results in continuous development, testing, integration, 
deployment, and monitoring of the software throughout the lifecycle. 

14-what is continous delivery and continous deployment 

>>continous delivery:- is state where your application always ready to be deployed manual  step is required to be actually deply the application

>>continous deployment:- is the automation of building testing and deploying if all test pass every commit will push new code through the entire development pipeline
to production with no manual intervention

>>continous integration:- is the automated building and testing of your application on every new commit

15 - What is the difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment?

>>the main difference between them is that continous delivery requires manual intervention to deploy.continous deployment is completely automated

16-Which scripting tools are used in DevOps?

>>Both Python and Ruby scripting tools are used in the DevOps.

17- Why open source tools boost DevOps?

>>Open source tools mainly used by any organization which is adapted by DevOps pipeline because DevOps came with the focus of automation 
in various aspects of organization build, release, change management, and infrastructure management areas.

18-What is the role of AWS in DevOps?

>>AWS is a cloud-based service provided by Amazon that ensures scalability through unlimited computing power and storage. 
It empowers IT enterprises to develop and deliver experienced products and deploy applications on the cloud

19- Explain two-factor authentication?

>>The two-factor authentication is a security method in which the user provides two ways of identification from separate categories.

20-Which makes AWS DevOps highly accessible?

AWS CloudFormation
AWS EC2
AWS CloudWatch
AWS CodePipeline

21-what is continuous testing in devops

>>Continuous testing in DevOps is a type of software testing that involves testing at every stage of the development life cycle. 
The goal of continuous testing is to evaluate the quality of the software as part of a continuous delivery process, by testing early and often

22- What is Automation Testing?

>>DevOps automation is the addition of technology that performs tasks with reduced human assistance to processes that facilitate feedback loops 
between operations and development teams so that iterative updates can be deployed faster to applications in production

Helps to save money and time.
Unattended execution can be easily done.
Huge test matrices can be easily tested.
Parallel execution is enabled.

23- what is infrastructure deployment

>>two ways to build infrastructure deployment
1-cloud native tools
a)-aws    -->cloud formation  yaml or json uses
b)-azure  -->arm templates
code is heavy in aws and azure

2-third party tools (terraform)
>>hashicorp tool it is an open-souce
>>it is famous it is easy to use and understand
>>it support to all clouds
>>terraform have idempotnce

24-what is configuration mangement tools

>>tools:-
1-chef
2-puppet
3-ansible
4-rundeck
5-salt

25- what is montoring tools

>>A monitoring application tracks your app's hardware utilization, SLA status, platform performance, and user response times. Among the metrics, 
DevOps engineers can monitor here are server diagnostics, error logs, network traffic reports, historical statistics, and failure diagnostics

Infrastrucrure-Monitoring tool
1-nagios
2-Prometheus 
3-Zabbix
4-datadog
5-new-relica
6-grafana
7-app dynamics
8-dynatrace

Application-monitoring tool
1-ELK stack
2-splunk
3-suma-logic
4-solar-wind

Notifications tool
1- opsgenie
2- pagerduty

26- What is a ticketing tool?

>>A ticketing system is a management tool that processes and catalogs customer service requests. 
Tickets, also known as cases or issues, need to be properly stored alongside relevant user information. 
The ticketing system should be user-friendly for customer service representatives, managers, and administrators.

types:-
1-jira
2-ServiceNow.

27-what is artifactes 

>>artifact is a by-product produced during the software development process. 
It may consist of the project source code, dependencies, binaries or resources, and could be represented in different layout depending on the technology

28-what is tomcat

>>>>tomcat is open-source
>>it is a web-server and developed by apache software foundation
>>apche tomcat is purely java based application and serve java servlets, jsp pages 
>>you can deploy the war files in tomcat
>>the default port number is 8080

29-how to add multiple servers in garfana

>>your installing prometheus and grafana server in one system your installed node exporter on that server and then launch 5 systems then added into the
prometheus system and adding this ip and port number 9100 into the prometheus.yml file then go to grafana and select the prometheus and select the dashboard
you will get the servers details

30-what is SRE

>>so we have pipeline is ready updates are ready need to update the app or application then we have middle in the production if the jenkins is 
not responding the application will stop or production also stop right
devops team will do applcication development

SRE this way to do it SRE is like implentation

SRE Team will come to any tools take responsible for 
installing and authentication and autherazation patches and updates and montoring creating multiple projects
giving access to multiple projects persons doing adminstration if devops person will get any probleam then call to sre person and solving that probleam

31-what is jenkins

>>default port number is 8080 and Jenkins version 2.375.2

